add `signed_credential_issuer_metadata` metadata parameter (#140)
openid/OpenID4VCI: openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.md

* `credential_response_encryption_enc_values_supported`: OPTIONAL. Array containing a list of the JWE [@!RFC7516] encryption algorithms (`enc` values) [@!RFC7518] supported by the Credential and/or Batch Credential Endpoint to encode the Credential or Batch Credential Response in a JWT [@!RFC7519].
* `require_credential_response_encryption`: OPTIONAL. Boolean value specifying whether the Credential Issuer requires additional encryption on top of TLS for the Credential Response and expects encryption parameters to be present in the Credential Request and/or Batch Credential Request, with `true` indicating support. When the value is `true`, `credential_response_encryption_alg_values_supported` parameter MUST also be provided.  If omitted, the default value is `false`.
* `credential_identifiers_supported`: OPTIONAL. Boolean value specifying whether the Credential Issuer supports returning `credential_identifiers` parameter in the `authorization_details` Token Response parameter, with `true` indicating support. If omitted, the default value is `false`.

> * `signed_credential_issuer_metadata`: OPTIONAL. String that is an entire signed JWT. This JWT can contain Credential Issuer metadata parameters as claims. The signed metadata MUST be digitally signed or MACed JWS using JSON Web Signature (JWS) [@!RFC7515] and MUST contain an `iat` (Issued At)claim and an `iss` (Issuer) claim denoting the party attesting to the claims in the signed metadata. This JWT can also be used to identify the actual Credential Issuer when it is using third party service provider as a domain to host its metadata file, in which case, the JWT SHOULD contain `sub` (Subject) claim denoting the third party service provider. If the Wallet supports signed metadata, metadata values conveyed in the signed JWT MUST take precedence over the corresponding values conveyed using plain JSON elements. A `signed_credential_issuer_metadata` metadata value SHOULD NOT appear as a claim in the JWT. Because metadata is only partially signed, the usage of DPoP [@!RFC9449] of MTLS [@!RFC8705] is RECOMMENDED to prevent an attacker from modifying the value of the Credential Endpoint to steal Access Tokens.

Author: ```suggestion
* `signed_credential_issuer_metadata`: OPTIONAL. String that is an entire signed JWT. This JWT can contain Credential Issuer metadata parameters as claims. The signed metadata MUST be digitally signed or MACed JWS using JSON Web Signature (JWS) [@!RFC7515] and MUST contain an `iat` (Issued At) claim and an `iss` (Issuer) claim denoting the party attesting to the claims in the signed metadata. This JWT can also be used to identify the actual Credential Issuer when it is using third party service provider as a domain to host its metadata file, in which case, the JWT SHOULD contain `sub` (Subject) claim denoting the third party service provider. If the Wallet supports signed metadata, metadata values conveyed in the signed JWT MUST take precedence over the corresponding values conveyed using plain JSON elements. A `signed_credential_issuer_metadata` metadata value SHOULD NOT appear as a claim in the JWT. Because metadata is only partially signed, the usage of DPoP [@!RFC9449] of MTLS [@!RFC8705] is RECOMMENDED to prevent an attacker from modifying the value of the Credential Endpoint to steal Access Tokens.
```

> * `signed_credential_issuer_metadata`: OPTIONAL. String that is an entire signed JWT. This JWT can contain Credential Issuer metadata parameters as claims. The signed metadata MUST be digitally signed or MACed JWS using JSON Web Signature (JWS) [@!RFC7515] and MUST contain an `iat` (Issued At) claim and an `iss` (Issuer) claim denoting the party attesting to the claims in the signed metadata. This JWT can also be used to identify the actual Credential Issuer when it is using third party service provider as a domain to host its metadata file, in which case, the JWT SHOULD contain `sub` (Subject) claim denoting the third party service provider. If the Wallet supports signed metadata, metadata values conveyed in the signed JWT MUST take precedence over the corresponding values conveyed using plain JSON elements. A `signed_credential_issuer_metadata` metadata value SHOULD NOT appear as a claim in the JWT. Because metadata is only partially signed, the usage of DPoP [@!RFC9449] of MTLS [@!RFC8705] is RECOMMENDED to prevent an attacker from modifying the value of the Credential Endpoint to steal Access Tokens.

Reviewer: I didn't get this 

> Because metadata is only partially signed, the usage of DPoP [@!RFC9449] of MTLS [@!RFC8705] is RECOMMENDED to prevent an attacker from modifying the value of the Credential Endpoint to steal Access Tokens.

can we add more clarification for this?

Since there may be some cases where the metadata attester and signer is different from the credential issuer, in the vest of the Trust Third Party like it could be a National Accreditation Body, in this case we must explode a sublist with:

- signed_credential_issuer_metadata_uri can be possibile, then providing the metadata by reference
- when metadata iss is a trusted third party, the sub MUST be included. The exp should be present as well, because a signed artifact should have an expiration time.

all good, even if I have to admit that's not clear how to establish the trust to the metadata issuer ... yes, out of scope here (but still in scope in our minds).

Author: what I meant was tha tif the signed_metadata JWT does not contain `authorization_servers` and `credential_issuer` claims, and they are in the JSON object, an attacker can insert attacker's `credential_issuer` value and trick the wallet to send an access token from a good AS to attacker's RS, so that attacker can use it at the good RS. ping @danielfett if he could suggest a better language..?

> The exp should be present as well, because a signed artifact should have an expiration time.
I am not sure what `exp` time I would put as an issuer to the metadata. what would cause the the issuer metadata to expire..?

> that's not clear how to establish the trust to the metadata issuer ...
I agree that's something we will need to reiterate on later. for now, the goal is to put a general purpose mechanism that implementers can start using.

Reviewer 2: I don't think we should be putting this quite general recommendation around usage of DPoP in the definition of a credential issuer metadata parameter. I think we should shift this to a seperate security consideration.

Reviewer: _Memento OpenID Federation_

An `openid_credential_issuer` metadata derived from a trust chain actually doesn't bring all these worries about how to establish the trust with the metadata "issuer" or attester :-)

Reviewer 3: I agree with Tobias that DPoP/MTLS should be general consideration that we can point to here. The focus in the description should be to say that DPoP/MTLS prevent the misuse of tokens after they are sent to manipulated (attacker-controlled) endpoints.

Another note: In the sentence 'A `signed_credential_issuer_metadata` metadata value SHOULD NOT appear as a claim' I would make that a MUST NOT as otherwise the processing is undefined.

Author: > Another note: In the sentence 'A signed_credential_issuer_metadata metadata value SHOULD NOT appear as a claim' I would make that a MUST NOT as otherwise the processing is undefined.

@danielfett why so..?

* `credential_response_encryption_enc_values_supported`: OPTIONAL. Array containing a list of the JWE [@!RFC7516] encryption algorithms (`enc` values) [@!RFC7518] supported by the Credential and/or Batch Credential Endpoint to encode the Credential or Batch Credential Response in a JWT [@!RFC7519].
* `require_credential_response_encryption`: OPTIONAL. Boolean value specifying whether the Credential Issuer requires additional encryption on top of TLS for the Credential Response and expects encryption parameters to be present in the Credential Request and/or Batch Credential Request, with `true` indicating support. When the value is `true`, `credential_response_encryption_alg_values_supported` parameter MUST also be provided.  If omitted, the default value is `false`.
* `credential_identifiers_supported`: OPTIONAL. Boolean value specifying whether the Credential Issuer supports returning `credential_identifiers` parameter in the `authorization_details` Token Response parameter, with `true` indicating support. If omitted, the default value is `false`.

> * `signed_credential_issuer_metadata`: OPTIONAL. String that is an entire signed JWT. This JWT can contain Credential Issuer metadata parameters as claims. The signed metadata MUST be digitally signed or MACed JWS using JSON Web Signature (JWS) [@!RFC7515] and MUST contain an `iat` (Issued At) claim and an `iss` (Issuer) claim denoting the party attesting to the claims in the signed metadata. This JWT can also be used to identify the actual Credential Issuer when it is using third party service provider as a domain to host its metadata file, in which case, the JWT SHOULD contain `sub` (Subject) claim denoting the third party service provider. If the Wallet supports signed metadata, metadata values conveyed in the signed JWT MUST take precedence over the corresponding values conveyed using plain JSON elements. A `signed_credential_issuer_metadata` metadata value SHOULD NOT appear as a claim in the JWT.

Author: ```suggestion
* `signed_credential_issuer_metadata`: OPTIONAL. String that is an entire signed JWT. This JWT can contain Credential Issuer metadata parameters as claims. The signed metadata MUST be digitally signed or MACed JWS using JSON Web Signature (JWS) [@!RFC7515] and MUST contain an `iat` (Issued At) claim and an `iss` (Issuer) claim denoting the party attesting to the claims in the signed metadata. This JWT can also be used to identify the actual Credential Issuer when it is using third party service provider as a domain to host its metadata file, in which case, the JWT SHOULD contain `sub` (Subject) claim denoting the third party service provider. If the Wallet supports signed metadata, metadata values conveyed in the signed JWT MUST take precedence over the corresponding values conveyed using plain JSON elements. A `signed_credential_issuer_metadata` metadata value SHOULD NOT appear as a claim in the JWT. Required Credential Issuer metadata parameters MUST be present as plain JSON elements regardless of whether this parameter is present or not.
```
per @danielfett's comment during the editor's call

Reviewer 4: Could @danielfett possibly record his reasoning please? :-)

> * `signed_credential_issuer_metadata`: OPTIONAL. String that is an entire signed JWT. This JWT can contain Credential Issuer metadata parameters as claims. The signed metadata MUST be digitally signed or MACed JWS using JSON Web Signature (JWS) [@!RFC7515] and MUST contain an `iat` (Issued At) claim and an `iss` (Issuer) claim denoting the party attesting to the claims in the signed metadata. This JWT can also be used to identify the actual Credential Issuer when it is using third party service provider as a domain to host its metadata file, in which case, the JWT SHOULD contain `sub` (Subject) claim denoting the third party service provider. If the Wallet supports signed metadata, metadata values conveyed in the signed JWT MUST take precedence over the corresponding values conveyed using plain JSON elements. A `signed_credential_issuer_metadata` metadata value SHOULD NOT appear as a claim in the JWT. Required Credential Issuer metadata parameters MUST be present as plain JSON elements regardless of whether this parameter is present or not.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* `signed_credential_issuer_metadata`: OPTIONAL. String that is an entire signed JWT. This JWT can contain Credential Issuer metadata parameters as claims. The signed metadata MUST be secured using JSON Web Signature (JWS) [@!RFC7515] and MUST contain an `iat` (Issued At) claim and an `iss` (Issuer) claim denoting the party attesting to the claims in the signed metadata. This JWT can also be used to identify the actual Credential Issuer when it is using a third-party service provider as a domain to host its metadata file, in which case, the JWT SHOULD contain `sub` (Subject) claim denoting the third party service provider. If the Wallet supports signed metadata, metadata values conveyed in the signed JWT MUST take precedence over the corresponding values conveyed using plain JSON elements. A `signed_credential_issuer_metadata` metadata value MUST NOT appear as a claim in the JWT. Required Credential Issuer metadata parameters MUST be present in the Credential Issuer metadata  regardless of whether this parameter is present or not.
```

Reviewer 5: I'm having also issues with parsing this sentence:
> This JWT can also be used to identify the actual Credential Issuer when it is using a third-party service provider as a domain to host its metadata file, in which case, the JWT SHOULD contain `sub` (Subject) claim denoting the third party service provider.

Author: suggestion to make it clear that trust establishment is out of scope for now and should be defined in the profiles, because different implementations use different mechanisms and throughout the spec we have not recommended one over the other...

Author: ```suggestion
* `signed_credential_issuer_metadata`: OPTIONAL. String that is an entire signed JWT. This JWT can contain Credential Issuer metadata parameters as claims. The signed metadata MUST be secured using JSON Web Signature (JWS) [@!RFC7515] and MUST contain an `iat` (Issued At) claim and an `iss` (Issuer) claim denoting the party attesting to the claims in the signed metadata. This JWT can also be used to identify the actual Credential Issuer when it is using third party service provider as a domain to host its metadata file, in which case, the JWT SHOULD contain `sub` (Subject) claim denoting the third party service provider. If the Wallet supports signed metadata, metadata values conveyed in the signed JWT MUST take precedence over the corresponding values conveyed using plain JSON elements. A `signed_credential_issuer_metadata` metadata value SHOULD NOT appear as a claim in the JWT.
```

> * `signed_credential_issuer_metadata`: OPTIONAL. String that is an entire signed JWT. This JWT can contain Credential Issuer metadata parameters as claims. The signed metadata MUST be digitally signed or MACed JWS using JSON Web Signature (JWS) [@!RFC7515] and MUST contain an `iat` (Issued At) claim and an `iss` (Issuer) claim denoting the party attesting to the claims in the signed metadata. This JWT can also be used to identify the actual Credential Issuer when it is using third party service provider as a domain to host its metadata file, in which case, the JWT SHOULD contain `sub` (Subject) claim denoting the third party service provider. If the Wallet supports signed metadata, metadata values conveyed in the signed JWT MUST take precedence over the corresponding values conveyed using plain JSON elements. A `signed_credential_issuer_metadata` metadata value SHOULD NOT appear as a claim in the JWT. Required Credential Issuer metadata parameters MUST be present as plain JSON elements regardless of whether this parameter is present or not.

Reviewer 6: It seems the wallet can ignore the signed data (e.g. if it does not support signed metadata) even though the the text states "If the Wallet supports signed metadata, metadata values conveyed in the signed JWT MUST take precedence over the corresponding values conveyed using plain JSON elements." since it also says "Required Credential Issuer metadata parameters MUST be present as plain JSON elements regardless of whether this parameter is present or not." I think that is dangerous. As an issuer not fully trusting the service provider hosting my metadata, I would like to ensure ANY wallet uses the signed data. Otherwise, an attacker could modify the unsigned data and circumvent the whole mechanism.

Author: @awoie, @tlodderstedt, @danielfett please review the text below

```suggestion
* `signed_credential_issuer_metadata`: OPTIONAL. String that is an entire signed JWT. This JWT can contain Credential Issuer metadata parameters as claims. The signed metadata MUST be digitally signed or MACed JWS using JSON Web Signature (JWS) [@!RFC7515] and MUST contain an `iat` (Issued At) claim and an `iss` (Issuer) claim denoting the party attesting to the claims in the signed metadata. This JWT can also be used to establish the binding between the actual Credential Issuer and the third party service provider used as a domain to host its metadata file, in which case, the JWT SHOULD contain `sub` (Subject) claim denoting the third party service provider. Metadata values conveyed in the signed JWT MUST NOT be duplicated as plain JSON elements. A `signed_credential_issuer_metadata` metadata value SHOULD NOT appear as a claim in the JWT.
```

Whenever TLS is used, a TLS server certificate check MUST be performed, per [@!RFC6125].

> ##
> 
> DPoP or MTLS needs to be recommended because metadata is only partially signed and attacker could do MITM by changing the credential endpoint value as suggested.
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

  * `enc_values_supported`: REQUIRED. Array containing a list of the JWE [@!RFC7516] encryption algorithms (`enc` values) [@!RFC7518] supported by the Credential and Batch Credential Endpoint to encode the Credential or Batch Credential Response in a JWT [@!RFC7519].
  * `encryption_required`: REQUIRED. Boolean value specifying whether the Credential Issuer requires the additional encryption on top of TLS for the Credential Response. If the value is `true`, the Credential Issuer requires the encryption for every Credential Response and therefore the Wallet MUST provide encryption keys in the Credential Request. If the value is `false`, the Wallet MAY chose whether it provides encryption keys or not.
* `credential_identifiers_supported`: OPTIONAL. Boolean value specifying whether the Credential Issuer supports returning `credential_identifiers` parameter in the `authorization_details` Token Response parameter, with `true` indicating support. If omitted, the default value is `false`.

> * `signed_metadata`: OPTIONAL. String that is a signed JWT. This JWT contains Credential Issuer metadata parameters as claims. The signed metadata MUST be secured using JSON Web Signature (JWS) [@!RFC7515] and MUST contain an `iat` (Issued At) claim and an `iss` (Issuer) claim denoting the party attesting to the claims in the signed metadata. This JWT can also be used to identify the actual Credential Issuer when it is using third party service provider as a domain to host its metadata file, in which case, the JWT SHOULD contain `sub` (Subject) claim matching the Credentials Issuer identifier. If the Wallet supports signed metadata, metadata values conveyed in the signed JWT MUST take precedence over the corresponding values conveyed using plain JSON elements. A `signed_metadata` metadata value SHOULD NOT appear as a claim in the JWT. The Wallet MUST establish trust in the signer of the metadata, and obtain the keys to validate the signature. The concrete mechanism how to do that is out of scope of this specification and may be defined in the profiles of this specification.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* `signed_metadata`: OPTIONAL. String that is a signed JWT. This JWT contains Credential Issuer metadata parameters as claims. The signed metadata MUST be secured using JSON Web Signature (JWS) [@!RFC7515] and MUST contain an `iat` (Issued At) claim and an `iss` (Issuer) claim denoting the party attesting to the claims in the signed metadata. This JWT can also be used to identify the actual Credential Issuer when it is using a third party service provider as a domain to host its metadata file, in which case, the JWT SHOULD contain `sub` (Subject) claim matching the Credentials Issuer identifier. If the Wallet supports signed metadata, metadata values conveyed in the signed JWT MUST take precedence over the corresponding values conveyed using plain JSON elements. If the Issuer wants to enforce use of signed metadata, it SHOULD omit the respective metadata parameters from the unsigned part of the credential issuer metadata. A `signed_metadata` metadata value SHOULD NOT appear as a claim in the JWT. The Wallet MUST establish trust in the signer of the metadata, and obtain the keys to validate the signature. The concrete mechanism how to do that is out of scope of this specification and may be defined in the profiles of this specification.
```

Reviewer 5: I agree with @tlodderstedt , otherwise we won't have interop. I added some editorial suggestions plus saying that the `signed_metadata` MUST NOT appear in the `signed_metadata`.

```suggestion
* `signed_metadata`: OPTIONAL. The `signed_metadata` parameter is a signed JSON Web Token (JWT) containing Credential Issuer metadata parameters as claims. The `signed_metadata` parameter MUST be secured using JSON Web Signature (JWS) [@!RFC7515] and MUST include an `iat` (Issued At) claim and an `iss` (Issuer) claim, indicating the party attesting to the claims in the `signed_metadata` parameter. The `signed_metadata` parameter can serve to identify the actual Credential Issuer when using a third-party service provider as a domain to host its Credential Issuer metadata. In such cases, the `signed_metadata` parameter SHOULD include a `sub` (Subject) claim matching the Credential Issuer identifier. If the Wallet supports the `signed_metadata` parameter, the metadata parameters conveyed as claims in the `signed_metadata` parameter MUST take precedence over the corresponding metadata parameters in the unsigned embedding Credential Issuer metadata. If the Issuer wishes to enforce the use of the `signed_metadata` parameter, it MUST exclude the respective metadata parameters contained as claims in the `signed_metadata` parameter from the unsigned Credential Issuer metadata. The `signed_metadata` parameter MUST NOT contain a `signed_metadata` claim. The Wallet MUST establish trust in the signer of the JWT and obtain the keys to validate the signature before utilizing the Credential Issuer metadata parameter values conveyed as claims in the `signed_metadata` parameter value. The specific mechanism for doing so is beyond the scope of this specification and MAY be defined in the profiles associated with this specification.
```

Reviewer 5: >  If the Issuer wants to enforce use of signed metadata, it SHOULD omit the respective metadata parameters from the unsigned part of the credential issuer metadata.

@tlodderstedt IMO, this is unnecessary since the `signed_metadata` takes precedence. What happens if a wallet cannot validate the JWS and finds the same parameter in the `signed_metadata` and the unsigned metadata? According to this spec, it MUST fail since `signed_metadata` takes precedence. Do we need to clarify this better?

Reviewer 5: Should the unsigned metadata be a fallback in case the wallet cannot validate the JWS, or do we accept the fact that in that case wallets that don't trust the keys cannot proceed? In the latter case we should probably change the MUST to a "SHOULD establish trust".

Author: If the wallet supports signed metadata it must use that data only if it trusts the public key, otherwise it should use the plaintext values. So if the issuer enforces all the metadata being signed and the wallet can't establish trust in the public key transaction should fail. So current MUST is fine.

Reviewer 5: After reading the text again, I think it should be fine. We could always be more explicit by saying something like the following but I'm not insisting:
```suggestion
* `signed_metadata`: OPTIONAL. String that is a signed JWT. This JWT contains Credential Issuer metadata parameters as claims. The signed metadata MUST be secured using JSON Web Signature (JWS) [@!RFC7515] and MUST contain an `iat` (Issued At) claim and an `iss` (Issuer) claim denoting the party attesting to the claims in the signed metadata. This JWT can also be used to identify the actual Credential Issuer when it is using a third party service provider as a domain to host its metadata file, in which case, the JWT SHOULD contain `sub` (Subject) claim matching the Credentials Issuer identifier. If the Wallet supports signed metadata, metadata values conveyed in the signed JWT MUST take precedence over the corresponding values conveyed using plain JSON elements. If the Issuer wants to enforce use of signed metadata, it SHOULD omit the respective metadata parameters from the unsigned part of the credential issuer metadata. A `signed_metadata` metadata value SHOULD NOT appear as a claim in the JWT. The Wallet MUST establish trust in the signer of the metadata, and obtain the keys to validate the signature. If the Wallet cannot establish trust in the signer of the metadata, the Wallet MUST reject the metadata parameters contained in the `signed_metadata` parameter value. The concrete mechanism how to do that is out of scope of this specification and may be defined in the profiles of this specification.
```

> * `signed_metadata`: OPTIONAL. String that is a signed JWT. This JWT contains Credential Issuer metadata parameters as claims. The signed metadata MUST be secured using JSON Web Signature (JWS) [@!RFC7515] and MUST contain an `iat` (Issued At) claim and an `iss` (Issuer) claim denoting the party attesting to the claims in the signed metadata. This JWT can also be used to identify the actual Credential Issuer when it is using third party service provider as a domain to host its metadata file, in which case, the JWT SHOULD contain `sub` (Subject) claim matching the Credentials Issuer identifier. If the Wallet supports signed metadata, metadata values conveyed in the signed JWT MUST take precedence over the corresponding values conveyed using plain JSON elements. A `signed_metadata` metadata value SHOULD NOT appear as a claim in the JWT. The Wallet MUST establish trust in the signer of the metadata, and obtain the keys to validate the signature. The concrete mechanism how to do that is out of scope of this specification and may be defined in the profiles of this specification.

Reviewer 5: I read the proposal described in https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VCI/issues/80#issuecomment-1786501377 again and I noticed that the current proposal in this PR is different. The difference is that in https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VCI/issues/80#issuecomment-1786501377, the suggestion is to have the following JWT claim values in `signed_metadata`: 
- `iss` is actual credential issuer
- `sub` is the third-party service hosting the metadata aka `signed_metadata`

The proposal above ^ suggests that the credential issuer is attesting/issuing the JWT, whereas in this PR, it is the opposite as follows:
- `iss` is the third-party service hosting the metadata aka `signed_metadata`
- `sub` is the credential issuer identifier

I thought about the proposal in this PR and I cannot get my around it. If the `signed_metadata` is hosted under the domain of a third-party service provider which is different from the actual credential issuer's domain, how would you perform .well-known discovery? IMO, this won't be possible unless one has someone has for example a DNS redirect. If this assumption is wrong and the idea is to keep the same domain for credential issuer and third-party service provider, why would you need this feature at all?

Author: The current state of this PR reflects the discussion in this PR, so I don't think we should be hang up on the discussion in the issue 80. Bottomline, there is an entity that issues JWT (iss) and an entity that hosts the metadata (sub)  - how do you call each of those (actual issuer or the provider) does not matter as long as sub == credential issuer identifier

Reviewer 5: Resolved by latest update of this PR (see comment on "actual" issuer).

> * `signed_metadata`: OPTIONAL. String that is a signed JWT. This JWT contains Credential Issuer metadata parameters as claims. The signed metadata MUST be secured using JSON Web Signature (JWS) [@!RFC7515] and MUST contain an `iat` (Issued At) claim and an `iss` (Issuer) claim denoting the party attesting to the claims in the signed metadata. This JWT can also be used to identify the actual Credential Issuer when it is using third party service provider as a domain to host its metadata file, in which case, the JWT SHOULD contain `sub` (Subject) claim matching the Credentials Issuer identifier. If the Wallet supports signed metadata, metadata values conveyed in the signed JWT MUST take precedence over the corresponding values conveyed using plain JSON elements. A `signed_metadata` metadata value SHOULD NOT appear as a claim in the JWT. The Wallet MUST establish trust in the signer of the metadata, and obtain the keys to validate the signature. The concrete mechanism how to do that is out of scope of this specification and may be defined in the profiles of this specification.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* `signed_metadata`: OPTIONAL. String that is a signed JWT. This JWT contains Credential Issuer metadata parameters as claims. The signed metadata MUST be secured using JSON Web Signature (JWS) [@!RFC7515] and MUST contain an `iat` (Issued At) claim and an `iss` (Issuer) claim denoting the party attesting to the claims in the signed metadata. This JWT can also be used to identify the actual Credential Issuer when it is using third party service provider as a domain to host its metadata file, in which case, the JWT SHOULD contain `sub` (Subject) claim matching the Credentials Issuer identifier. In this case, the `iss` claim also defines the actual Credential Issuer. If the Wallet supports signed metadata, metadata values conveyed in the signed JWT MUST take precedence over the corresponding values conveyed using plain JSON elements. A `signed_metadata` metadata value SHOULD NOT appear as a claim in the JWT. The Wallet MUST establish trust in the signer of the metadata, and obtain the keys to validate the signature. The concrete mechanism how to do that is out of scope of this specification and may be defined in the profiles of this specification.
```

> * `signed_metadata`: OPTIONAL. String that is an entire signed JWT. This JWT can contain Credential Issuer metadata parameters as claims. The signed metadata MUST be secured using JSON Web Signature (JWS) [@!RFC7515] and MUST contain an `iat` (Issued At) claim and an `iss` (Issuer) claim denoting the party attesting to the claims in the signed metadata. This JWT can also be used to identify the actual Credential Issuer when it is using third party service provider as a domain to host its metadata file, in which case, the JWT SHOULD contain `sub` (Subject) claim denoting the third party service provider. If the Wallet supports signed metadata, metadata values conveyed in the signed JWT MUST take precedence over the corresponding values conveyed using plain JSON elements. A `signed_metadata` metadata value SHOULD NOT appear as a claim in the JWT. The Wallet MUST establish trust in the signer of the metadata, and obtain the keys to validate the signature. The concrete mechanism how to do that is out of scope of this specification and may be defined in the profiles of this specification.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* `signed_metadata`: OPTIONAL. String that is a signed JWT. This JWT contains Credential Issuer metadata parameters as claims. The signed metadata MUST be secured using JSON Web Signature (JWS) [@!RFC7515] and MUST contain an `iat` (Issued At) claim and an `iss` (Issuer) claim denoting the party attesting to the claims in the signed metadata. This JWT can also be used to identify the actual Credential Issuer when it is using third party service provider as a domain to host its metadata file, in which case, the JWT SHOULD contain `sub` (Subject) claim denoting the third party service provider. If the Wallet supports signed metadata, metadata values conveyed in the signed JWT MUST take precedence over the corresponding values conveyed using plain JSON elements. A `signed_metadata` metadata value SHOULD NOT appear as a claim in the JWT. The Wallet MUST establish trust in the signer of the metadata, and obtain the keys to validate the signature. The concrete mechanism how to do that is out of scope of this specification and may be defined in the profiles of this specification.
```

> * `signed_metadata`: OPTIONAL. String that is an entire signed JWT. This JWT can contain Credential Issuer metadata parameters as claims. The signed metadata MUST be secured using JSON Web Signature (JWS) [@!RFC7515] and MUST contain an `iat` (Issued At) claim and an `iss` (Issuer) claim denoting the party attesting to the claims in the signed metadata. This JWT can also be used to identify the actual Credential Issuer when it is using third party service provider as a domain to host its metadata file, in which case, the JWT SHOULD contain `sub` (Subject) claim denoting the third party service provider. If the Wallet supports signed metadata, metadata values conveyed in the signed JWT MUST take precedence over the corresponding values conveyed using plain JSON elements. A `signed_metadata` metadata value SHOULD NOT appear as a claim in the JWT. The Wallet MUST establish trust in the signer of the metadata, and obtain the keys to validate the signature. The concrete mechanism how to do that is out of scope of this specification and may be defined in the profiles of this specification.

Reviewer 6: I'm not sure about the security implications of making this feature optional for the wallet. I think if the issuer adds signed metadata, the issuer may want to force the wallet to use this data.

Author: How are you suggesting to make it mandatory for the wallet?

Reviewer 4: I am not keen to make this mandatory for the wallet:

1. It can't be implemented without an ecosystem profile that makes clear how to check signatures, and that profile can also make it mandatory to implement for the wallet.
2. If we make it mandatory to implement it then probably becomes a thing we have to conformance test and that makes the conformance testing process more complicated for everyone, even the people that don't need this feature.
3. As an issuer you can essentially force wallets to support signed meta data by publishing all (or at least some critical part) of it's metadata only inside the signed object.
4. It would be inconsistent with https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8414#section-2.1

Reviewer 6: I'm ok with adding text stating something along the lines of bullet 3.

Reviewer 6: added a suggestion

> * `signed_metadata`: OPTIONAL. String that is an entire signed JWT. This JWT can contain Credential Issuer metadata parameters as claims. The signed metadata MUST be secured using JSON Web Signature (JWS) [@!RFC7515] and MUST contain an `iat` (Issued At) claim and an `iss` (Issuer) claim denoting the party attesting to the claims in the signed metadata. This JWT can also be used to identify the actual Credential Issuer when it is using third party service provider as a domain to host its metadata file, in which case, the JWT SHOULD contain `sub` (Subject) claim denoting the third party service provider. If the Wallet supports signed metadata, metadata values conveyed in the signed JWT MUST take precedence over the corresponding values conveyed using plain JSON elements. A `signed_metadata` metadata value SHOULD NOT appear as a claim in the JWT. The Wallet MUST establish trust in the signer of the metadata, and obtain the keys to validate the signature. The concrete mechanism how to do that is out of scope of this specification and may be defined in the profiles of this specification.

Reviewer 7: Why is "A `signed_metadata` metadata value SHOULD NOT appear as a claim in the JWT." only a SHOULD NOT and not MUST NOT?

Author: This is from RFC8414. I don't know why RFC8414 made it a should @selfissued, would you know?

> * `signed_metadata`: OPTIONAL. String that is an entire signed JWT. This JWT can contain Credential Issuer metadata parameters as claims. The signed metadata MUST be secured using JSON Web Signature (JWS) [@!RFC7515] and MUST contain an `iat` (Issued At) claim and an `iss` (Issuer) claim denoting the party attesting to the claims in the signed metadata. This JWT can also be used to identify the actual Credential Issuer when it is using third party service provider as a domain to host its metadata file, in which case, the JWT SHOULD contain `sub` (Subject) claim matching the Credentials Issuer identifier. If the Wallet supports signed metadata, metadata values conveyed in the signed JWT MUST take precedence over the corresponding values conveyed using plain JSON elements. A `signed_metadata` metadata value SHOULD NOT appear as a claim in the JWT. The Wallet MUST establish trust in the signer of the metadata, and obtain the keys to validate the signature. The concrete mechanism how to do that is out of scope of this specification and may be defined in the profiles of this specification.

Author: ```suggestion
* `signed_metadata`: OPTIONAL. String that is a signed JWT. This JWT contains Credential Issuer metadata parameters as claims. The signed metadata MUST be secured using JSON Web Signature (JWS) [@!RFC7515] and MUST contain an `iat` (Issued At) claim and an `iss` (Issuer) claim denoting the party attesting to the claims in the signed metadata. This JWT can also be used to identify the actual Credential Issuer when it is using third party service provider as a domain to host its metadata file, in which case, the JWT SHOULD contain `sub` (Subject) claim matching the Credentials Issuer identifier. If the Wallet supports signed metadata, metadata values conveyed in the signed JWT MUST take precedence over the corresponding values conveyed using plain JSON elements. A `signed_metadata` metadata value SHOULD NOT appear as a claim in the JWT. The Wallet MUST establish trust in the signer of the metadata, and obtain the keys to validate the signature. The concrete mechanism how to do that is out of scope of this specification and may be defined in the profiles of this specification.
```

> * `signed_credential_issuer_metadata`: OPTIONAL. String that is an entire signed JWT. This JWT can contain Credential Issuer metadata parameters as claims. The signed metadata MUST be secured using JSON Web Signature (JWS) [@!RFC7515] and MUST contain an `iat` (Issued At) claim and an `iss` (Issuer) claim denoting the party attesting to the claims in the signed metadata. This JWT can also be used to identify the actual Credential Issuer when it is using third party service provider as a domain to host its metadata file, in which case, the JWT SHOULD contain `sub` (Subject) claim denoting the third party service provider. If the Wallet supports signed metadata, metadata values conveyed in the signed JWT MUST take precedence over the corresponding values conveyed using plain JSON elements. A `signed_credential_issuer_metadata` metadata value SHOULD NOT appear as a claim in the JWT. How the trust in the signer of the metadata can be established, and how to obtain the keys to validate the signature is out of scope of this specification and may be defined in the profiles of this specification.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
* `signed_metadata`: OPTIONAL. String that is an entire signed JWT. This JWT can contain Credential Issuer metadata parameters as claims. The signed metadata MUST be secured using JSON Web Signature (JWS) [@!RFC7515] and MUST contain an `iat` (Issued At) claim and an `iss` (Issuer) claim denoting the party attesting to the claims in the signed metadata. This JWT can also be used to identify the actual Credential Issuer when it is using third party service provider as a domain to host its metadata file, in which case, the JWT SHOULD contain `sub` (Subject) claim denoting the third party service provider. If the Wallet supports signed metadata, metadata values conveyed in the signed JWT MUST take precedence over the corresponding values conveyed using plain JSON elements. A `signed_credential_issuer_metadata` metadata value SHOULD NOT appear as a claim in the JWT. How the trust in the signer of the metadata can be established, and how to obtain the keys to validate the signature is out of scope of this specification and may be defined in the profiles of this specification.
```

Author: the original rationale for choosing a different parameter name was because `signed_metadata` is defined for AS metadata and this is about RS metadata, but if there is an agreement that there is no need to differentiate, I don't have too strong of an opinion.

Author: ```suggestion
* `signed_metadata`: OPTIONAL. String that is an entire signed JWT. This JWT can contain Credential Issuer metadata parameters as claims. The signed metadata MUST be secured using JSON Web Signature (JWS) [@!RFC7515] and MUST contain an `iat` (Issued At) claim and an `iss` (Issuer) claim denoting the party attesting to the claims in the signed metadata. This JWT can also be used to identify the actual Credential Issuer when it is using third party service provider as a domain to host its metadata file, in which case, the JWT SHOULD contain `sub` (Subject) claim denoting the third party service provider. If the Wallet supports signed metadata, metadata values conveyed in the signed JWT MUST take precedence over the corresponding values conveyed using plain JSON elements. A `signed_metadata` metadata value SHOULD NOT appear as a claim in the JWT. How the trust in the signer of the metadata can be established, and how to obtain the keys to validate the signature is out of scope of this specification and MUST be defined in the profiles of this specification.
```

> * `signed_metadata`: OPTIONAL. String that is a signed JWT. This JWT contains Credential Issuer metadata parameters as claims. The signed metadata MUST be secured using JSON Web Signature (JWS) [@!RFC7515] and MUST contain an `iat` (Issued At) claim and an `iss` (Issuer) claim denoting the party attesting to the claims in the signed metadata. This JWT can also be used to identify the actual Credential Issuer when it is using third party service provider as a domain to host its metadata file, in which case, the JWT SHOULD contain `sub` (Subject) claim matching the Credentials Issuer identifier. In this case, the `iss` claim also defines the actual Credential Issuer. If the Wallet supports signed metadata, metadata values conveyed in the signed JWT MUST take precedence over the corresponding values conveyed using plain JSON elements. A `signed_metadata` metadata value SHOULD NOT appear as a claim in the JWT. The Wallet MUST establish trust in the signer of the metadata, and obtain the keys to validate the signature. The concrete mechanism how to do that is out of scope of this specification and may be defined in the profiles of this specification.

Author: ```suggestion
* `signed_metadata`: OPTIONAL. String that is a signed JWT. This JWT contains Credential Issuer metadata parameters as claims. The signed metadata MUST be secured using JSON Web Signature (JWS) [@!RFC7515] and MUST contain an `iat` (Issued At) claim and an `iss` (Issuer) claim denoting the party attesting to the claims in the signed metadata. This JWT can also be used to identify the actual Credential Issuer when it is using third party service provider as a domain to host its metadata file, in which case, the JWT SHOULD contain `sub` (Subject) claim matching the Credentials Issuer identifier. In this case, the `iss` claim also defines the actual Credential Issuer. If the Wallet supports signed metadata, metadata values conveyed in the signed JWT MUST take precedence over the corresponding values conveyed using plain JSON elements. If the Issuer wants to enforce use of signed metadata, it SHOULD omit the respective metadata parameters from the unsigned part of the credential issuer metadata. A `signed_metadata` metadata value SHOULD NOT appear as a claim in the JWT. The Wallet MUST establish trust in the signer of the metadata, and obtain the keys to validate the signature. The concrete mechanism how to do that is out of scope of this specification and may be defined in the profiles of this specification.
```

> * `signed_metadata`: OPTIONAL. String that is a signed JWT. This JWT contains Credential Issuer metadata parameters as claims. The signed metadata MUST be secured using JSON Web Signature (JWS) [@!RFC7515] and MUST contain an `iat` (Issued At) claim and an `iss` (Issuer) claim denoting the party attesting to the claims in the signed metadata. This JWT can also be used to identify the actual Credential Issuer when it is using third party service provider as a domain to host its metadata file, in which case, the JWT SHOULD contain `sub` (Subject) claim matching the Credentials Issuer identifier. In this case, the `iss` claim also defines the actual Credential Issuer. If the Wallet supports signed metadata, metadata values conveyed in the signed JWT MUST take precedence over the corresponding values conveyed using plain JSON elements. A `signed_metadata` metadata value SHOULD NOT appear as a claim in the JWT. The Wallet MUST establish trust in the signer of the metadata, and obtain the keys to validate the signature. The concrete mechanism how to do that is out of scope of this specification and may be defined in the profiles of this specification.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* `signed_metadata`: OPTIONAL. String that is a signed JWT. This JWT contains Credential Issuer metadata parameters as claims. The signed metadata MUST be secured using JSON Web Signature (JWS) [@!RFC7515] and MUST contain an `iat` (Issued At) claim, an `iss` (Issuer) claim denoting the party attesting to the claims in the signed metadata and a `sub` (Subject) claim matching the Credential Issuer's origin identifier. If the Wallet supports signed metadata, metadata values conveyed in the signed JWT MUST take precedence over the corresponding values conveyed using plain JSON elements. A `signed_metadata` metadata value MUST NOT appear as a claim in the JWT. The Wallet MUST establish trust in the signer of the metadata, and obtain the keys to validate the signature. The concrete mechanism how to do that is out of scope of this specification and may be defined in the profiles of this specification.
```

Whenever TLS is used, a TLS server certificate check MUST be performed, per [@!RFC6125].

> ## Token Binding
> 
> The usage of DPoP [@!RFC9449] or MTLS [@!RFC8705] is RECOMMENDED for the detection of replay attacks with access and refresh tokens.
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```
will move current 13.6 to the security considerations in a different PR.

   [[ To be removed from the final specification ]]
   
   -13
  

>    * added `signed_credential_issuer_metadata` parameter

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
   * added `signed_metadata` parameter
```
